
# Book Digest: Pragmatic Thinking and Learning: Refactor Your Wetware

Title     : Pragmatic Thinking and Learning: Refactor Your Wetware  
Author(s) : Andy Hunt  
ISBN-10   : 1934356050  
ISBN-13   : 978-1934356050

## Chapter 1 - Introduction
- Combining rich, flexible human thought with the rigid constraints of a digital computer exposes the power and the deepest flaws of both.
- Software is created, not on a computer, but in your head.
- The two most important modern skills are: Communication skills and Learning & Thinking skills.
- Nothing in life is ever static; only dead fish go with the flow.  You need to grow and adapt and modify your habits and approaches.
- Everything in the universe, including our thoughts and the physical world, is interconnected.  You must always consider the context of information.

## Chapter 2 - Journey From Novice To Expert
- There are five discrete stages through which one must pass on the journey from novice to expert.  This is known as the _Dreyfus Model_.
- The are two types of theory.  Event Theories and Construct Theories.  Event theories can be measured, verified and proven.  Construct theories are intangible abstractions that cannot be proven, but are conceptually useful nonetheless. The Dreyfus model is a construct theory.
- A major difference between novices and experts are that novices need clear, context-free rules by which they can operate.  Experts, however, are ineffective when constrained by such rules. It’s often difficult for experts to explain their actions to a fine level of detail as many of them are subconscious, which makes it hard for others to observe and hard for the expert to articulate.
- The Dreyfus model states that, as you move from novice to expert, you don't just gain more knowledge but you fundamentally change how you perceive the world and how you approach problem solving.
- Stage 1 of the Dreyfus model is Novice.  Novices are concerned about their ability to succeed but with little experience to guide them, they need "recipes" and clear steps to follow.  Novices don’t particularly want to learn, they just want to accomplish an immediate goal.  The problem with "recipes", however, is that you can never specify everything fully so the competence given by following the recipe only goes so far.
- Stage 2 of the Dreyfus model is Advanced Beginner. Advanced beginners can start to break away from the fixed recipes a little bit. They can try tasks on their own, but they still have difficulty troubleshooting. They seek specific information fast but don't want to be bogged down by lengthy theory or spoon-fed the basics yet again. Advanced beginners can start using advice in the correct context, based on similar situations they’ve experienced in the recent past but just barely.
- Stage 3 of the Dreyfus model is Competent.  They can now develop conceptual models of the problem domain and work with those models effectively. They can troubleshoot problems on their own and begin to figure out how to solve novel problems - ones they haven’t faced before, however, without more experience they’ll still have trouble trying to determine which details to focus on when problem solving.
- Stage 4 of the Dreyfus model is Proficient. They will seek out and want to understand the larger conceptual framework around this skill. They will be very frustrated by oversimplified information.  Importantly, at this level proficient people make a major breakthrough on the Dreyfus model - they can self-correct previous poor task performance and they can learn from the experience of others. Proficient practitioners use _maxims_.  These are fundamental truths, but unlike the novice recipes, they need to be applied in context, and context is key to becoming an expert.
- Stage 5 of the Dreyfus model is Expert. Experts are the primary sources of knowledge and information in their field.  They continually look for better methods and better ways of doing things, using their vast experience to apply new knowledge in the correct context. Experts work from intuition, not from reason. 
- Intuition is the tool of the expert in all fields, but organizations tend to discount it because they mistakenly feel that intuition "isn't scientific" or "isn't repeatable".
- The three most important steps on the transition from novice to expert are:
    - Moving away from reliance on rules to intuition.
    - A change in perception, where the problem is seen as a holistic whole with some parts more relevant than others.
    - A change from being a detached observer of the problem to an involved part of the system itself.
- Metacognitive abilities, or the ability of being self-aware, tends to only be possible at higher skill levels, unfortunately, practitioners at lower skill levels are more likely to overestimate their abilities, whilst those at higher skill levels tend to underestimate due to being aware of how much they _don't_ know.
- Research suggests that it takes 10 years of effort and sustained practice to become an expert in a given field.  The deliberate practice requires: A well-defined task, Of appropriate difficulty - challenging but doable, and an environment supplying informative feedback you can act on with opportunities for repetition and correction of errors.
- We can't allow novices to fall back to the old adage of "I was just following orders" as this doesn't ultimately help the novice or the organisation, so we need to raise the bar for decision making.  To start this, people are natural mimics, so allow them to learn by watching and imitating.
- The cycle of training goes through: Imitate - first seek to copy those of higher skill.  Assimilate - absorb the knowledge gained through imitation and practice.  Innovate - go beyond the imitation and introduce ideas of your own.
- Beware the tools trap.  Many people believed that certain tools - e.g. RUP & CMM process models in software development - were the industry's salvation, however, that turned out not to be the case.  Such models and tools have their uses and are helpful, but are not a panacea.  Models are tools, not mirrors.
- Beware over-reliance on formal models. This can lead to devaluing traits that cannot easily be formalised (such as simply _thinking_ about a problem), legislating behaviour that contradicts individual autonomy, and an oversimplification of complex situations (many formal processes state that success can be derived by simply "following all the rules" - Any time someone starts a sentence with "All you need to do is..." or "Just do this...", the odds are they are wrong).  Formal methods also tend to lose any nuance of context as they're geared more towards "typical" rather than "particular".  Ironically, "typical" rarely happens.
- In order to benefit from the Dreyfus model, we need to learn the skill of learning.

## Chapter 3 - This Is Your Brain
- Your brain is wired like a dual-CPU, single master bus design.  It has memory and two CPU's that can read and write to that memory.
- The 1st CPU is slower, and is responsible for linear, logical thought and language processing and it processes instructions one at a time, step by step in order.  When it's not processing anything else, it'll simple generate an internal stream of verbal chatter (the so-called "voice inside your head").  This is known as "L-mode" or Linear mode.
- The 2nd CPU is faster, and more like a digital signal processor. It's like a super search engine that can quickly search, pattern match and retrieve data from your memory even whilst you're thinking of something else, working asynchronously.  But it can match patterns that may or may not be related.  This CPU is the one that allows us to perfectly recognize faces of people we may not have seen for years, yet we're unable to describe, verbally, exactly what such a face looks like.  The 2nd CPU is known as "R-mode" or Rich mode.
- You need both of these CPU's, or modes of thinking, working together in order to be effective.  The 2nd CPU is critical for intuition, problem solving and creativity and you need the 1st CPU to work through the details to make things happen.
- Memory in our brains must be refreshed.  It's possible to erase memories by suppressing a specific enzyme in the synapses called PKMzeta.  So long as our brains are exercised and "power" is continually applied, we can keep our memory current and fresh.
- Since the R-mode of your brain works asynchronously, important thoughts can spring to mind at any time.  For this reason, it's important to be able to capture these thoughts 24 hours a day.  Always ensure you have a mechanism to do this - a notepad & pen, a note taking app on your phone etc.  The more great ideas you capture, the more you will have.  If you don't capture your great ideas, you'll stop noticing you have them.
- The fastest processing modes of the brain are the muscle memory.  These are how expert piano players can think about a piece of music, but not consciously have to think about every note and chord in a fast passage.
- The L-mode and R-modes of the brain are often referred to as the left-brain and the right-brain in more traditional neurological research, however, there's no such thing as a left and right brain, but the L-mode and R-modes still exist as two distinct cognitive styles of processing.
- L-mode helps to process verbal (words), analytical (figuring out step-by-step), symbolic (interpreting symbols), abstract (understanding the big picture from a small part), temporal (keeping track of time), rational (reasoning and facts), digital (counting with numbers), logical (drawing conclusions) and linear (linked ideas).  These are clearly the exact kinds of processing required by the average white-collar worker.
- R-mode helps with non-verbal, synthetic, concrete, analogic, non-rational, spatial, intuitive and holistic.  These are all more "sensing" processes that include hunches or feelings.  The R-mode wants to view things holistically, to form the whole from the parts and to perceive patterns and structures.  The traits are far more associated with creative artists than with engineers.
- Just because a thought process is non-rational or non-repeatable doesn't mean it's non-scientific, irresponsible or inappropriate in any way.
- We want to use R-mode more than we have because the R-mode provides intuition, and that's something we desperately need in order to become experts.  Being an expert requires not only intuition, but also seeing and discriminating patterns and on tacit knowledge.  R-mode's analogic and holistic thinking styles are also very valuable to software architecture and design.
- R-mode's synthesis is what makes us, as programmers, reach for prototypes and writing unit tests.  Learning by doing is R-mode's synthesis and is distinct from L-mode's analysis.
- Although L-mode thinking is necessary, and it's actually what allowed mankind to evolve from the cavemen of the past, we've become over-reliant on our L-mode and we need to not only learn to re-use R-mode more, but also to re-integrate the two modes.
- Design trumps features.  We need R-mode thinking in modern business.  If we had a company that wants to create a new toilet brush, we can't compete on price, so we'd have to compete on aesthetics. Having a toilet brush designed by a famous designer would give us enough differentiation to compete.
- Attractive works betters.  Several studies have shown that attractive user interfaces simply work better than unattractive ones. This attractiveness actually affects cognitive function. Positive emotions are essential to learning and creative thinking.
- Beauty (attractiveness) emerges from artistic selection. Creativity comes from the selection and assembly of just the right components in just the right presentation to create the work, and selection - knowing what to select and in what context - comes from pattern matching.
- We can actually re-wire our brains, this is known as neuroplasticity.  Re-wiring our brains allows us to learn new things that we never thought we were capable of.  The key to re-wiring our brains is belief and constant practice.
- The more frequently you use certain skills and abilities, the more your brain becomes wired for those skills and they begin to dominate.  Equally, lesser used skills and abilities lose ground.  The phrase "Use it or lose it" is very apt.

## Chapter 4 - Get In Your Right Mind
- L-mode thinking is the dominant way of thinking. We need to activate more of our R-mode and to use it and integrate it more effectively with the L-mode.
- One way to help engage more of our brain is to increase sensory input.  Something as simple as doodling or fiddling with a paper clip whilst on a conference call or pondering a tricky problem can help.
- We also need to use cross-sensory feedback which means involving not only one extra sense, but many. For example, a software design may be drawn as a picture, documented as textual prose, described verbally and discussed in a group.  Look out for, and use, physical metaphors if available as these can really help.
- Drawing is an R-mode activity, but many people say they have no skills at drawing.  It's not putting marks on paper that's difficult, but the "seeing" of the image to draw.  If you try to draw your house and end up with a flat box shape with a triangle on top, that's the L-mode of your brain kicking in and telling you that this is what a house looks like.  But it's not really your house, it's a convenient shorthand representation, just like a stick figure might represent a person.
- An exercise in drawing and engaging more of the R-mode of your brain is to copy a known picture.  Re-orient the picture so that it's upside down and copy that, but importantly, don't allow your brain to mentally name parts of the picture you may recognise (i.e. if it's a man in a hat, don't think of a hat!) just think of the lines of the drawing.  This technique shuts down the more verbally controlled L-mode of the brain and allows the more creative R-mode to take over.
- In order to facilitate better learning, you want to create a "R-mode to L-mode flow".  This means having the experience of something first _before_ following up with more formal study and learning.  i.e. Learning to climb an indoor wall might start with actually doing some climbing before any official instruction is given.  After some (admittedly poor) attempts, the instructor could then provide formal instruction.  This allows you to relate the formal instruction with the prior experience.
- Just as creativity can be stifled by trying to tie ideas down prematurely, learning can be impeded by trying to memorize minor facts when you don’t yet grasp the whole.  When learning, don't try so hard to learn and memorize, just get "used to it" first and try to understand the "gist".
- As programmers, one good way to get both L-mode and R-modes working together is to use pair programming.  One programmer at the keyboard (the driver) will be using his L-mode as he's locked into verbal L-mode thinking as he's typing code, whilst the other programmer (the navigator) is free to engage more non-verbal R-mode thinking.
- L-mode and R-mode can often have a common ground in metaphor - the act of creating analogies.  Humans are not very good at dealing with the abstract and we use metaphor to relate some abstract concept to something more concrete all the time.
- Use random juxtaposition to create stronger metaphors.  For example, the words "cigarette" and "traffic light" might meld into the concept of using a red band on a cigarette as an aid to stopping smoking.  These are known as "generative" metaphors and are much harder to come up with, but engage more R-mode thinking to define them.
- Cultivate humour to build stronger metaphors.  One way to achieve this is instead of drawing an analogy, you might also extend an existing idea past what's reasonable.
- All of the inputs to our brain are stored, but we can't always easily retrieve them.
- Ideas that form from the processing of the inputs are often not verbalizable. We can help to bring out these ideas via the use of image streaming - ask yourself a question that you want the answer to, close your eyes and try to visualize images.  Try to examine detail in the images and describe them out loud.  Note that this technique doesn't work for some people.  We can also help bring out non-verbalizable ideas with free-form journaling - simply writing out thoughts.  Most often today, this is done with blogging. 
- Use the "Morning Pages" technique for writing.  Simply write three pages with a pen & paper every morning before you do anything else and never skip a day.  Even if you don't know what to write on a given day, that's fine, keep doing it.  Eventually, ideas and thoughts will form and will come out onto the pages.
- Going for a walk can help to "invite" the R-mode of your brain to think about a problem and reveal some insight.   It's often when you're not consciously thinking of the problem that the R-mode can come out and offer this insight.  As soon as you focus on the goal, the L-mode takes over and will dominate.
- Source code is read many more times than it's written, so we should take the effort when writing it to make it as human-readable as possible.  This means making the patterns in the code easier to see.  Try to aid visual perception by using consistent typographic cues.
- The key to creativity and problem solving lies in finding different ways of looking at a problem.  Try to turn the problem around or examine it from a different viewpoint.  For example, sound engineers will often make instruments sound really bad and then reverse those changes to make the instruments sound very good.
- Change is also good for the brain.  Simple changes such as using a different hand to brush your teeth, eating at an earlier or later time etc.  These small changes are good for your brain; they help change the wiring and prevent neural ruts.

## Chapter 5 - Debug Your Mind
- Humans are not rational creatures and many decisions are not logical, relevant decisions based on all the relevant facts, but are rather made based on faulty memory and our emotional state at the time.
- Cognitive biases can affect our rational decision making ability and come in several forms.
    - Anchoring - Using a specific piece of information (say, the number 100) and repeating that over and over.  If I now offer something for sale at £85, you'll anchor to the 100 number and £85 now sounds like a bargain.
    - Fundamental attribution error - We tend to ascribe other people's behaviour to their personality instead of looking at the situation and context in which the behaviour occurs
    - Self-Serving bias - This is the tendency to believe that if the project is a success, I'm responsible and if the project is a failure, then I'm not.
    - Need for closure - This is our tendency to attempt to eradicate any uncertainty or doubt.  Forcing premature closure cuts off options and leaves you vulnerable to errors.  Artificially declaring a decision, such as an end date for a project, doesn't remove the inherent uncertainty, it just masks it.
    - Confirmation bias - Everyone looks for facts that confirm their own preconceptions and pet theories.
    - Exposure effect - We tend to favour things that are more familiar to us than things that aren't.
    - Hawthorne effect - This is the tendency for people to change their behaviour when they know they are being watched. This often occurs when a new tool or process is introduced to the team.
    - False memory - This is the fact that humans can easily confuse imagined events with real ones. We're very susceptible to the power of suggestion and memories are actually re-written by your brain for your current context (i.e. as you age).
    - Symbolic reduction fallacy - This is the L-mode brain kicking in and providing some symbolism to simplify and reduce a more complex subject.  This is prone to losing nuance and even some truth.
    - Nominal fallacy - This is a kind of symbolic reduction fallacy.  It's the idea that simply labelling something means that it's easier to understand or explain.
- Symbolic reduction is especially problematic as it's ingrained within our thinking.  Often, the only way our brains can keep up with the complexities of the world is to reduce them to simplified symbols.
- "Rare" events are less rare than you think. We should not discount unobserved or rare phenomena as impossible. Littlewood's Law states that we can actually expect to observe a "one-in-a-million" miracle about once a month.  Therefore, it's important to take time to examine such outlier events.
- Try to defer closure.  We're always seeking closure on a problem to try to eliminate uncertainty, however, we usually learn more and more about a problem with the passing of time.  Fixing on a decision prematurely reduces your options, sometimes to the point of eliminating the successful choice. Deferring decisions can make people uncomfortable, so we need to get comfortable with uncertainty.
- Remember that you don't remember very well.  Memory is unreliable so always trust the written word more than memory.
- Recognize your generational affinity.  We all have biases and your biases will change over time.  Always consider the context of your biases as they're affected by your peers, your environment and the times you live in.
- There are only four generational archetypes and they tend to go in cycles, with each archetype of a generation affecting and creating the next:
    - Prophet: Vision, values.
    - Nomad: Liberty, survival, honour.
    - Hero: Community, affluence.
    - Artist: Pluralism, expertise, due process.
- Everyone has specific tendencies to their personality.  The Myers-Briggs personality test attempts to codify these traits along a set of 4 axes:
    - Extrovert (E) vs Introvert (I)
    - Sensing (S) vs Intuition (N)
    - Thinking (T) vs Feeling (F)
    - Judging (J) vs Perceiving (P)  
- It's important to understand and recognize these personality types, since certain types are less likely to work well with others.  For example, a strong (S) type working with a strong (N) type will generate friction.  You shouldn't try to change other people in this circumstance as it simply won't work.  You may get your way, but the other person will not like it.
- Beware the "lizard brain".  These are the areas of the brain that have been with man since his creation and control such basic instincts as fight vs flight etc.  These behaviours are inherent in the brain's wiring, not in the higher-level cognitive thought processes. We must try to not allow these basic instincts to override the other, more nuanced, areas of our brain:
    - Fight, Flight or Fright:  In the face of an attack, or even just a perceived one, do we fight, run away, or freeze with fear.
    - Get It Now:  Don't think or plan, just follow impulses and focus on what's most exciting not what's most important.
    - Be Dominant: You're the alpha dog. Get to the top any way you can.  The rules apply to everyone else and not to you.
    - Defend The Territory: Mark your territory and defend it from others at all costs.  Never share anything.
    - If It Hurts, Hiss: Don't fix any problems, but spend all your energy blaming others.
    - Like Me == Good; Not Like Me == Bad: Good vs Evil. People like you are good, all others are evil.
- Be very aware of "mob rule".  If you are around happy, upbeat people, it will tend to lift your mood. If you're around depressed, pessimistic people who feel like losers, you will start to feel like a depressed, pessimistic loser as well. Attitudes, beliefs, behaviours, emotions—they are all contagious.
- Take time to process in order to prevent the lizard brain from taking over. Breathe out then in, deeply. Count to ten. Let the lizard reaction pass, and allow the neocortex to process the event.
- We know that intuition is a powerful thing, but it can be wrong.  It's important to use and trust your intuition but to verify and prove that the "gut feeling" is actually correct.

## Chapter 6 - Learn Deliberately
- The word _education_ comes from the Latin word _educare_ which means "led out" in the sense of being drawn forth.  This is the opposite of what we normally think of education, in which we think of something being poured into the learner.
- This is sometimes known as "sheep dip training", named after actual sheep dips and implies a quick "burst" of learning - this is usually popular in corporate training - unfortunately this type of training doesn't really work:
    - Learning is something you do, not something done to you.
    - Mastering knowledge alone, without experience, isn't effective.
    - A random approach, without goals and feedback, tends to give random results.
- To achieve something, you need to have a goal, but goals can be too vague and generalised.  "I want to lose weight" or "I want to learn Erlang" are great _visions_ that represent the end state, but are poor goals.  Goals are more short-term and represent specific things that can be attained on the way to achieving the overall vision.
- Use SMART objectives to create your actual goals.  SMART stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant and Time-boxed.
    - Specific: It's not enough to say "I want to learn Erlang", it has to be more concrete, such as "I want to be able to write a web-server in Erlang that dynamically generates content".
    - Measurable: You can only measure things that are concrete. Use actual numbers and milestones to layout your progress to the goal. If you think you can't measure your objective, it's probably not specific enough.
    - Achievable: Your goals must be realistic, something you can actually achieve given time and effort on your behalf.  Establishing world peace is a fine and noble vision, but likely unrealistic. Make sure that each new objective that you set is achievable based upon where you are _now_.
    - Relevant: Does this really matter to you? Is it important and are you passionate about it? Is it something that is even under your control? If none of those, then it isn't relevant. It needs to matter and be something you have control over.
    - Time-Boxed: You need to give yourself a deadline.  Without it, goals will languish and be perpetually pushed aside by the more pressing exigencies of the day and will never happen. Give yourself frequent, small milestones. This is, perhaps, the most important of the SMART objectives.
- When setting goals, always consider the wider context in which you'll seek to achieve the goal. Pulling a few "all-nighters" studying and writing code may help move you to the goal, but consider if that is sustainable and the impact it might have on the rest of your life.
- We often try to learn new things "in our free time".  The reality is that there is no such thing as free time.  Time can't be created or destroyed, only allocated and unless specifically allocated, time usually gets filled up very quickly with other things.
- Create a "Pragmatic Investment Plan".  This involves modelling your knowledge portfolio as though it were a financial one.
    - Have A Concrete Plan: Use SMART objectives and devise different levels of goals over time, such as Now (what's the next action you can take), Goals for next year, Goals for five years out.
    - Diversify: All knowledge investments have value. Invest in a different range of areas (techniques, industries and non-technical areas such as art etc.). Always consider risk vs reward of each investment. You'll want some low risk / low reward investments along with some high risk / high reward ones too.
    - Make Active (not passive) Investments: Don't just sit around on your assets. You have to continually re-evaluate your portfolio and ask if it's performing as expected. Have new technologies or major players in the world changed since you started?  Maybe you need to add some new elements that you hadn't originally considered?
    - Make Regular Investments: You need to make a commitment to invest a minimum amount of time on a regular basis.  Create a ritual if needed.  Plan what you need to do before each session.
- Different people learn differently, and it's important to discover how _you_ learn best.  There are three main types of learners:
    - Visual:  Visual learners need to see the material and the instructor.  Pictures and graphs work well and visual learners are sensitive to body language, facial expressions etc.
    - Auditory: Auditory learners have to hear the material. Lectures, seminars and podcasts work well.  Tone of voice, speed and other nuances can make a difference.
    - Kinesthetic: Kinesthetic learners learn by moving and touching, they need to physically experience the material.  This is especially appropriate for sports or arts and crafts where you really need to _do_ something in order to learn it.
- Study groups can really help to learn a subject. Working alongside others who are studying the same material can help to gain a better understanding. These groups can be informal or formal, you can read independently then convene to discuss the work, or create more a interactive workshop style.
- We learn best from observation and it's an unfortunate truth that reading the written word is one of the least effective forms of learning.  One way to help make reading more effective is to use a technique known as SQ3R:
    - Survey: Scan the table of contents and chapter summaries for an overview of the material
    - Question: Note any questions you may have.
    - Read: Read the book in its entirety.
    - Recite: Summarise, take notes and put things in your own words.
    - Review: Re-read, expand notes and discuss with colleagues.
- Reading the same material over and over doesn't really help much with learning and remembering the material.  Instead, try testing yourself.  Repeated try to recall the material over and over.  This helps consolidate learning and strengthens connections in the brain.
- Use "Mind Maps" to help dissect topics and show sub-topics and their relationships. Emphasise spatial cueing and relationships between topics and use colour and symbols to help provide additional meaning.  Mind Maps are most effective when drawn by hand rather than using a computer program but you can always draw the initial map by hand and transcribe it to a computer later. The act of transcribing itself has great value in remembering the material.
- Mind Maps can really help to clarify a subject. They are great tools for fleshing out ideas for a piece of writing, a presentation etc. If you're stuck with a lot of individual ideas, a Mind Map can help generate clarity and show the way forward.
- Documentation (for example, on a software project) often lacks value as it can quickly become out of date.  But the act of _documenting_, to the writer, can have value. Mental preparation that involves an inward attention of focus can promote flashes of insight, even if the preparation occurs in advance of facing any particular problem.
- One of the simplest and most effective techniques to learn something is to try to teach it.  This doesn't have to be some formal classroom style teaching endeavour, even a simple "rubber ducking" approach of talking out loud to a rubber duck can work surprisingly well.

## Chapter 7 - Gain Experience
- Your brain is designed to explore and build it's own mental models, it's not really designed to passively absorb and store received knowledge.  For this reason, we should explore and "play with" the material before studying the facts.
- This approach is known as _constructivism_ and essentially means the we build to learn, rather than learn to build.
- Working with new material or solving a problem in a playful manner makes it more enjoyable, but it also makes it easier to learn. Don't be afraid of fun.
- George Polya wrote a book about problem solving.  To solve a problem, ask yourself:
    - What are the unknown aspects?
    - What _do_ you know? What data do you have?
    - What constraints and what rules apply?  
  Then make a plan, execute it, and review the results.
- Interesting techniques involve trying to think of a familiar problem that has the same or similar unknowns, or solving a related or simplified problem by dropping some constraints.  Also try to restate the problem itself as this can provide greater insight into a simpler solution.
- Be careful when learning from previous experiences, though.  Learn from similarities, but unlearn from differences.
- Failure is critical to success. Making errors is perfectly naturally, and should not be discouraged.  The value comes in learning from the error.  Errors benefit us as they lead us to study what happened, what went wrong and, through understanding, fix the problem.
- Successful ability to explore, play and experience failures requires the following:
    - Freedom to experiment.
    - Ability to backtrack to a stable state.
    - Reproduce any work product as of any time.
    - Ability to demonstrate progress.
- It can be very difficult to learn from instructions put into words, and we learn much better by discovery.  This is most effective when it comes from _situational awareness_, allowing for situational feedback in a tight feedback loop with a short feedback gap. A key aspect is to accept what is without judgement and simply be aware of it.  Don't try to get it right, but notice when it's wrong and act to correct it.
- Pressure kills cognition. The mere presence of a looming deadline can panic the mind and cause failure. This kind of pressure is especially damaging for creative R-mode activities. What's worse is that such creative depression caused by deadlines can linger for a few days beyond the actual deadline itself.
- Time pressures as well as a torrent of verbal instructions will shut down the R-mode of our brain. The L-mode deals with time pressures and so completely takes over. This often results in very poor decision making and explains such things as management in business making very bad decisions that seem to actively make matters worse when pressure becomes so great.
- A very important consideration for being able to fail is to have _permission_ to fail as this is the path to success. This permission needs to be very explicit and the key to achieving this is to create an environment where the cost of of failure is near zero.  Think of this like unit tests - it's ok for the unit test to fail (red) as you'll study the code, improve it and eventually make the test pass (green).
- If failure is costly, there will be no experimentation and no risk taking or even learning, just a frozen mind like a deer caught in the headlights.
- Our perception is based upon prediction and prediction is based on context and past experience. We can recreate physiological responses to stimuli that we simply remember, such as remembering your first love, or a bully in school.  Our brains are not very good at discriminating amongst input sources.
- Groove your mind for success.  We are natural mimics, so simple believing that you'll be successful in a specific endeavour will help you be successful.  This is often manifested in software teams by the mantra that you should not be the best developer on the team.  If you surround yourself with better developers, you become better yourself.
- Experience success using "scaffolding". Getting used to what "success" feels like is important enough that it's worthwhile to fake it at first. Create situations that allow you to experience success.  Negative scaffolding can work too.  Runners might ties weights to their ankles to make running harder during training such that when the real work happens, it feels easier.

## Chapter 8 - Manage Focus
- Although we live in information-rich times, this overabundance of information has a negative effect and has resulted in a poverty of knowledge and attention.
- Information and knowledge are often used interchangeably, but they're actually different.  Information is raw data in a given context (e.g. Company A acquired Company B for $1 billion).  Knowledge is giving meaning to that information (e.g. Knowing how the acquisition will affect the markets, create new opportunities etc.)
- Beware of "idle-loop chatter". This is the sort of "idle loop" routine that's repeating in the L-mode of your brain that will cause your attention to drift to more trivial things when you're not explicitly focused on something more important.
- Meditative techniques can really help to focus the mind.  This focus lasts beyond the actual meditation session itself.  Meditation doesn't have to be religious, and should simply be the sinking into a relaxed state of awareness where the mind is aware of the things around you, but you don't judge or give any further thought to them. This is known as "Vipassana meditation".
- To indulge in this meditation, simply find a quiet place, free from distraction. Sit in a comfortable, alert posture with a straight back. Close your eyes and focus your awareness on your breath, being aware of the rhythm and the length of inhale and exhale.  Don't try to change it, don't use words or verbalize anything, simply free your mind of all other thoughts but the focus on the breath.  This isn't about "falling sleep", you want to remain very alert, but to clearly focus that awareness.
- We need to defocus in order to focus. Our creative processes work best when we let go of the problem with our conscious mind.  Solutions will come to you at inopportune moments as creativity doesn't work on a time clock, and it's quite clear that a lot of creative processes involves a large amount of "sitting around doing nothing".  But it's not the idea of not doing _anything_, it's the idea of not doing _something_.
- Our consciousness is effectively made up of "multiple drafts" of thoughts, just like multiple drafts of a piece of writing. Some drafts contain ideas that others don't.  When several of these drafts simultaneously flash together in your mind, they take over the brain for a brief moment. That is consciousness.
- The difference between procrastination and having thoughts "marinate" for a while is simply related to the task. If the task is something you really don't want to do, any distraction is likely to be purely procrastination. If the task is something you're still interested in, but merely feel a little "stuck", then tackling other activities is likely to be ideas still stewing in your mind.
- There's a "consultants rule of three" which states that if you can't think of three different solutions to a problem, or can't think of three different ways a plan can fail, then you haven't thought it through enough.  Multiple drafts can be like this and we need to let at least three different alternative ideas ferment in our consciousness before settling on a plan.
- We need to develop and utilise our Exocortex. This is any mental memory or processing component that resides outside of your physical brain - for example, you may not bother to remember the number of feet in a mile, since such information is easily looked up from a reference source.
- Use a Wiki to manage information and knowledge and to capture and track such reference information.  Wiki's are like text-based mind maps, and when used in conjunction with an actual mind map can yield great results in organising information.
- Use "Sense Tuning" to collect more thoughts.  This is the phenomenon when someone tells you to look out for "red cars" whilst you're out walking and now you start to see red cars everywhere.
- We should be very careful to prevent _context switching_, this is the switching from between different tasks.  The information we hold in our heads for one task will be lost as we switch to another and it can take 20 minutes when returning to the original task to gain the context back.
- Trying to focus on several things at once means you'll perform poorly at each of them.  In today's digital age, we can easily suffer from _cognitive overload_ as there's a never-ending flurry of new information constantly distracting us.
- To help prevent the temptation to context switch to another task, we need avoid distractions by either removing the cues that allows easy switching or forcefully making conscious, more laborious efforts to move from one task to another.  For example, if you're writing code in your IDE, don't have your email client open and possibly even hide the icon that allows you to launch the program.  If you want to stop writing code and check your email, force yourself to completely close your IDE before launching your email client. Purposefully making it harder to switch from one task to another reduces the temptation to do so.
- Another way we can prevent losing context is to make specific actions very quick and easy.  If you need to send a quick email whilst your coding your IDE, being able to do that with a few keystrokes and _without_ having to load your entire email client (say, from a command line) ensures you don't get too distracted by new emails that may be sitting in your inbox ready for you to read.
- Take time to organise and process tasks efficiently.  Using a system such as [GTD (Getting Things Done)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done) can help to organise, prioritise, and effectively complete your work and is primarily geared around getting ideas and tasks out of your head and into the exocortex (a notebook, or a todo list app) for later processing.
- Manage interruptions deliberately.  Set "rules of engagement" for when it's ok for your colleagues to interrupt you with a question and vice-versa. Limit your email handing to specific times of the day - turn off all notifications of new email to help with this. Be aware of setting expectations on email, if you send less, you'll receive less and always choose your own "tempo" for the email conversation.
- If you do need a break from a task, try to only take _context-friendly_ breaks. For example, if you're coding, taking a break by going for a walk on your own is context-friendly as you can keep the coding context in your head. Taking a break by reading a news website or reading and answering emails is not context-friendly and you'll lose the coding context very quickly.
- If you think you're going to get interrupted, the best thing you can do is to "save your stack".  This means taking a few seconds (or minutes if possible) to leave yourself some notes, breadcrumbs or cues of where you currently are in your current task so that when the interruption is over, you can more easily and quickly resume your original task.
- On your computer, try to use multiple monitors (or one large monitor) to avoid context switching between applications. Use multiple desktops organised by task (communications, coding, writing etc.) so that you can optimise your personal workflow to maximize context area for the tasks at hand.
- The biggest thing to staying sharp is self-awareness. You need to remember to deliberately work at staying sharp as left to our own devices our default settings aren't ideal.

## Chapter 9 - Beyond Expertise
- Practice makes permanent. Realise that old habits are very hard to break and if you revert to one, simply acknowledge the lapse and move on with new intention.
- The topic of change is huge and complex. Some suggestions to help you manage effective change are:
    - **Start with a plan.**  Block out some time and fight for it. Keep track of accomplishments and review as necessary.
    - **Inaction is the enemy, not error.**  The danger doesn't lie in doing something wrong, but in doing nothing. Don't be afraid to make mistakes.
    - **New habits take time.**  It will take a minimum of 3 weeks of performing a new activity for it to become a habit.
    - **Belief is real.**  Belief in yourself and your ability to change is crucial.  If you think you'll fail, you probably will.
    - **Take small, next steps.**  Start with low-hanging fruit. Start with small, achievable goals. Rinse and repeat, taking one step at a time to move towards your goal.
- In any new venture, there's a certain amount of inertia to overcome.  The simplest way to get started is to start immediately.
- To go beyond expertise is to somewhat circle back to the _beginner's mind_, full of possibilities and acting on curiosity.  Once expertise is achieved, if you believe in your own expertise, you close you mind to new possibilities.  You may begin to resist change and your own judgement and views, instead of supporting you, can imprison you.
- Self-awareness is key to becoming expert - and moving beyond it - but be careful not to fall into a rut and always remain open to new ideas and possibilities, seeing the world as a curious child would. Approach learning without pre-conceived notions, prior judgement or a fixed viewpoint.
- Eternal vigilance is not only the price of liberty, it's the price of awareness too. As soon as you go on auto-pilot, you're not steering anymore. Always remain vigilant and grab the wheel to ensure you can always steer you own direction.

